Over its approximately 100 year history stellar modeling has become an
essential tool for understanding astrophysical phenomena which cannot be
directly observed. Modeling allows empirical constraints --- such as
elemental abundances, luminosities, and effective temperatures --- to
strongly inform non-observables. Here we propose a thesis in five parts,
related through their use of both modeling and the Dartmouth Stellar
Evolution Program (DSEP) to conduct this modeling. In two of the parts of
this thesis we will use DSEP in conjunction with atmospheric boundary
conditions generated by collaborators to build chemically self-consistent
models of multiple populations (MPs) in the globular clusters NGC 2808, 47
Tuc, and NGC 6752. We will infer helium abundances across MPs and compare
these inferred abundances to those from models which do not take as careful
a handling of a stars chemistry. The remaining three parts of this thesis
will address a recently discovered feature in the Gaia $G_{BP} - G_{RP}$
color-magnitude-diagram (colloquially the Jao Gap). Throughout this series
we will update DSEP's opacity tables to the most modern available and show
how this change affects the theoretical location of the Jao Gap.
Subsequently, we will use synthetic color-magnitude-diagrams (CMDs)
covering the Jao Gap regime in conjunction with Gyro-kinematically derived
ages to test the feasibility of population dating by measuring the Jao
Gap's location in a CMD. Finally, we will apply techniques developed in our
theoretical testing of Jao Gap based dating to the solar neighborhood,
attempting to identify coeval groups and roughly age date them. These five
parts will compose the scientific chapters of a thesis to be submitted to
the faculty and advising committee no latter than the summer term of 2024.
